Website under review: newgrounds.com

Overview:

Newgrounds is a site for people to upload their own cartoons and animations. It
also allows the upload of user generated games and audio. Started in 1995, Newgrounds
has grown into one of the largest animation and entertainment websites on the internet.
Newgrounds has improved significantly over the years, but there are still areas of
improvement to be made.

Improvement 1: Availability of video content.
In the early days of flash animation, most people developed animations with Macromedia
Flash, and produced Shockwave files that could be played by installing a Flash extension
in the browser. As Adobe sunsetted this Flash support in 2020, most if not all of the
videos and animations created and archived on Newgrounds no longer play natively.
Newgrounds has done a very good job at resolving this with the development of Ruffle,
an in-browser Flash emulator written in Rust. However, many projects also supported
ActionScript 3.0, which, as of writing, still requires users to download Newgrounds own
player to support. This is an issue for users with screen readers, as the content
cannot be played natively and poses a challenge to install.

There is little that can be done here to improve the media itself. The easiest resolution is to flag the
older content with a heading or label indicating that the content is old and that
it requires manual work to play, so people using assistive technology can make their
own decisions on whether or not to go down that rabbit hole.

Improvement 2: Playback of video content

Furthermore, as there were no standards in the beginning as to how the video content
was packaged, most people implemented the loading screen, playback controls, and volume
controls manually. This means that these controls were embedded into the content,
and the user did not have control over whether something autoplayed, looped, was
muted etc. (Some of this was used for comedic effect, for example a frustratingly
unplayable video). This older content is still enabled through Ruffle. This goes
against WCAG guidelines for accessible media, as people using accessibility features
do not have a common interface to control playback.

In order to resolve this, the emulation software can and should provide a playback
wrapper that overrides the builtin playback controls.

Improvement 3: Mandatory video and audio descriptions

Being a largely creative platform, the titles and descriptions of the videos and
games on Newgrounds are often also used for additional creative or comedic effect,
rather than explicitly describing the content. This makes it difficult for people
using text-to-speech or screen readers to accurately understand what type of content
they are perceiving.

An easy solution that does not infringe upon the creator's creativity is to provide
an accessibility description box below the main description box that accurately
describes the content, while still allowing for creative expression in the main
descriptions

Improvement 4: Infinitely scrolling content/content display

Newgrounds is largely a browser-based website, meaning it is not often accessed on
mobile. This means that there is little resizing done for mobile devices. As a consequence
users with accessibility software that resizes the browser content will be frustrated by
the somewhat rigid nature of the webpage display. Additionally, when scrolling through
the games or movies sections of the website, reaching the bottom of the page prompts
some inline javascript to fetch more movies and games, effectively making the page
an infinitely scrolling feed. This prevents users who need to use navigation from
reaching the site map at the bottom.

To resolve this, style sheets could be applied to make the resizing of the webpage
more flexible for users with differently sized devices. Additionally, the inline
infinite scrolling feed should be a toggle-able option, with the default set to off,
or better, the games and movies should be paginated rather than infinitely scrolling.
